Part I: Planning & Design (15 pts)

* Decide on a game idea and core goal
* Game rules and player actions are written or sketched out
* Main objects (player, obstacles, goals, enemies, etc.) are identified
* Sketch a simple plan showing how the game will work step-by-step
* Identify which icons you are going to use and get the unicode for those icons
* Determine your board size
* Determine your scoring system
* Determine win / lose conditions
* Outline expansion ideas

Game Idea:
Dungeon Explorer. Explore a randomly generated Hallway.
At end of Hallay(string of three rooms), spawn boss.
Once Phase 1 defeated, boss leaves, and an upgrage token spawns. 
Then repeat, till phase 3 boss defeated.

Game Rules:

board is 6x6.

Player clear room, 
player heal
every phase completed increases the next phase.

Major Game Elements:
Random list of rooms, id'd into a list of six. 
probably variable via letters A-F),and  chuck them into a list. 
The player will randomly generate a room from the list when they heal. 

player will start with 5 health
    this way player will have to either upgrade health to be tanky, OR damge to be strong. Doing both will lead to failure, because the idea of jack of all trades master of none. 

gear stats will be the following eqution: B+P(xU), or base + phase x upgrade

enemies stats for f(x)=(bxP)+S, or then enemies will be g(x)=b+p +S

Base is always 1.

Three enemies: 
   melee: runs towards u, and swings. hp = f(x), damage b g(x).
    entity will move to u one square at a time, and will swing if u are in 1 square range.
    melee ai: chase player. 

    Ranged: runs away from you, and fires 1 bullet every 3 seconds. hp = g(x), dmg=f(x)
    Will move 2 squares away from u. will shoot if u are 4 squares away. bullet isnt bullet speed. Arrow is lazer speed. 
    So if Ranged shoots, whole row, or coloumn(depends on ranger facing) will become lazered. 
    movement ai: avoid player.

Support: will heal 1 nearby ally by 5 points, Supports will perma have P hp.
    range is 4. 
    if heals, will wait 2 seconds before healing again
    heal is: if enemy entity in range, then heal them. 
    movement ai: follow ranged.

boss will have P attacks. P1 spike attack, P2 atk is lazers, and P3 atk is radius of bullets.

Gameplay Process:
start in room 1, clear, move into room 2. 
repeat but room 4 is where boss resides.
each room has P+1 enemies. 
so lvls 1-3 will have 2 enemies, where levels 8-11 will have 4 enemies. 
upon defeat of boss, that P will increase by 1. 
at end of each phase an upgrade orb will be dropped.
upon pickup plyer will press 1 or 2. 1 for health, 2 for upgrade. 

after clearing each room u will get a heal.
heal math is 4-p.

Scoring:

each room cleared adds score.
score is (1 x phase + over heal).
overheal: anytime a player would heal more than they have, instead add 1 to score. 

so the worst u can do on room 1 is 1 point, and the best is 4. 